-The American people
are about to weigh in.
-A campaign
is already under way.
-Voters are going to get
to weigh in.
-It's about the principle.
-You don't do this
in an election year.
-The American people
will choose.
-Let the American people
consider it as part of deciding
who to support in November.
-That was when Democrat Barack
Obama was in the White House.
Now many of the same senators
you just saw
are saying don't wait.
President Trump should get
to choose
Ginsburg's successor
immediately.
-We've got a situation --
you just played a quote
from me in 2016.
We can play that game all day
long where you can play both --
-Well, I-I-I-I-I-
I don't disagree with that.
I don't disagree.
That's what I'm just trying
to get you to concede --
this is really about
who has the votes
and who has the power
at any given time, right?
-S-S-S-So,
no, actually, it isn't.
-Here's what you said
at that time.
-In a few short months,
we will have a new president
and new senators who can
consider the next justice
with the full faith
of the American people.
-Now, Garland was nominated
nine months before the election,
and you were saying then,
it was wrong to deny voters
a chance to weigh in.
So if it was wrong then,
nine months before the election,
why is it okay now,
six weeks before the election?
-So, Chris, in 2014,
the American people
elected a Republican majority
in the Senate
put the brakes on President
Obama's judicial nominations.
In 2018, we had a referendum
on this question.
Just a month before
the 2018 midterms,
we had the vote on
Justice Cavanaugh.
There cannot have been
a clearer mandate
because the American people
didn't just re-elect
Republicans,
they expanded our majority.
-If you look at history,
if you actually look
at what the president is,
this has happened 29 times.
-29 times, Chuck,
there have been vacancies
in the year
of a presidential election.
-Now, presidents have made
nominations all 29 times.
That's what presidents do.
-If the shoe were on
the other foot,
and the Democrats had
the White House and the Senate,
they would right now be trying
to confirm another member
of the Supreme Court.
-They don't see any hypocrisy
between that position then
and this position now?
-Chris, the Senate majority
is performing
our Constitutional duty
and fulfilling the mandate
the voters gave us.
-So you guys have this
new explanation.
Never once on the Senate floor
when an election
is just months away --
in 2016, you said, "The people
should be allowed to consider
possible Supreme Court nominees
as one factor in deciding
who they'll support
for president.
This shouldn't even
really be controversial."
Then you said, "This is not
about the person,
it's about
the principle involved,
and I want to give the American
people a voice in this."
Republicans have said
there should not be
a bitter political fight.
We have called on the president
to spare the country this fight.
The best way to avoid the fight
is to agree to let
the people decide."
Senator, these are your words.
Not once did you say,
"Oh, it depends on what party
the Senate holds versus
the party of the president.
This just sounds like a power
grab, pure and simple.
-Well, it is the Biden rule,
and this is the way --
this is the president
of the country --
-There is no Biden rule!
-Everyone knows that
if the president
were Joe Biden or Hillary
Clinton and Chuck Schumer
were the Majority Leader,
the odds are 100% -- 100% --
There's no universe
in which Nancy Pelosi
would not have been
the previous speaker, say,
"We are going to confirm
this seat."